---
title: Radio Telescope and SWAN array
subtitle: Website Design
layout: default
modal-id: 1
img: eclipse2.jpg
thumbnail: eclipse2.jpg
project-date: April 2014
client: Start Bootstrap
categories: instiprojs
---
We, at the astronomy club, were just starting on what best can be done with the limited amount of funds we get from IIT, in 2016. Optical observations were being done with the 8" Newtonian present at the rooftop, and we did not want to build another optical scope. Hence, we decided to perform Solar observations with a Radio telescope, and in the process learn how these observations are done!

We took an old TV dish, and coupled it to the satellite finder and an LNB, and connected it to an RTL-SDR dongle, which transforms Radio waves to electrical signals to be viewed on a computer. The setup was pretty simple, and we did a sweep across the Sun to look at the radio signal.

We were planning to increase the size of the dish, add a motorized mount, and perform interferometry, when we looked at an interesting piece of article on the newspaper, wherein Raman Research Institute-Bangalore was planning to do something similar, but all over India. We contacted them, and put up a first visit to RRI-Gauribidanur, where there were multiple Murchison Widefield arrays, similar to those in Australia.

We were impressed by the idea of having such arrays all over India and perform interferometry. Hence, we decided to join the SWAN radio array program, which has students from IISERs, BITS, and couple of other universities.

All this work, and the amount of effort put by the club members did not go un-noticed. I was already evangelizing the club wherever I could, and here we could now ask students to participate in the project to (i). Learn electronics, and (ii). Contribute to the nation with a student-run radio array!

As a part of SWAN array, we have first understood accessing our tile remotely, and have synchronized each antenna to the local oscillator. We are currently writing up the code to perform a generic sweep across a given 'Sweet spot'. We presented the initial plots at CFI Open house 2017 (I will write down the Open house 2016 and 2017 posts soon!), and shall continue to work on with the SWAN imaging challenge coming up next.